---
layout: default
title: 13th December
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2023-12-13
parent: 2023 meetings
nav_order: 25
---

# 2023-12-13

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Justus Magin (JM), Ward Fisher (WF), Gābor Kovācs (GB), Alfonso Ladino (AL), Josh Moore (JM), Davis Bennett (DB), Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS), Eric Perlman (EP)

## TL;DR:

We kicked off the meeting with introductions, even though we didn’t have any new joiners today (as this was the last meeting for this year). DB gave a lightning talk on Pydantic-Zarr, where he showed the usage of the library he created. After this, SV discussed moving to ZulipChat, and that was the end of 2023 for the Zarr Community!

**Updates:**

- General call for Zarr-Python Core-devs to review V3 design doc: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/discussions/1591>
- On-going work on Zarr-Python V3 by Davis Bennett, Joe Hamman and Norman Rzepka
    - v3 branch: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/tree/v3>
    - Open PRs: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3AV3>
    - Next refactor meeting on 12/20
- Discussion of participation in GSoC 2024 - B&P working group
- Zarr Sprint in NYC @ Columbia University - organised by Jed Sundwall
    - Tweet: <https://twitter.com/cloudnativegeo/status/1734624685105492216>
    - Event: <https://lu.ma/Zarr-NYC>
    - Agenda: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1x62xVWxcjJJHQWdNE5jPHkVzh5k6_HfoifUJ9v-AwPA/edit?usp=sharing>
    - Focus: Mostly working on GeoZarr spec and HTTP extension
    - Aiming for 40 folks
- This is the last community meeting for this year!

**Meeting Minutes:**

- Introductions
    - SV: Community Manager @ Zarr
    - JM: Xarray maintainer
    - AL: PhD. student at University of Illionis
    - WF: NetCDF technical team lead
    - JM: Bio-imaging - sharing images
    - GB: Scientist @ Allen Institute 
- DB: _brief on the Zarr-Python sprint_
    - DB: Found the existing standard in the spec not useful
    - DB: Understood lot of internals of Zarrita
    - DB: Broke a lot of stuff
- DB: Lightning talk on Pydantic-Zarr
    - DB: _shares screen_ and _starts presenting_
    - GB: Looks good! We also use the hierarchial structures - Question: Does it traverse the hierarchies?
    - DB: It doesn't know if it's OME or anything else. It's just traverse the attributes.
    - DB: Traversing the the hierarchies to the bottom. Will be good to put a stop somewhere.
    - DB: Changed the perspective of how to create the hierarchies procedurally.
- SV: Moving to ZulipChat soon
    - JMS: What's the problem? Activity or ZulipChat?
    - SV: The chat platform.
    - DB: Having an email reminder will be good
    - DB: Will be beneficial for Zarr users
    - JMS: Looking to connect all my chat platforms via Matrix
    - EP: The world of chat platform has gone crazy!
    - JM: Using discourse for async or public discussions
    - JM: Created discord for private, more synchronous stuff
    - DB: Scientific Python Discord has #Zarr channel
    - JM: Astropy is super active in SP discord
    - EP: Can use ZC for throwing questions at DB
