---
layout: default
title: 20th September
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2023-09-20
parent: 2023 meetings
nav_order: 19
---

# 2023-09-20

**Attending:** Eric Perlman (EP), Sanket Verma (SV), Norman Rzepka (NR), Nathan Zimmerberg (NZ), Gabor Kovacs (GB), Dennis Heimbigner (DH), Ward Fisher (WF), Martin Durrant (MD), Davis Bennett (DB)

## TL;DR:

SV kicked off the meeting with intros. NZ had some questions about the current state of V3 implementation. MD wants to push ZEP0003 for technical review and voting. DB has submitted a new ZEP, i.e. ZOM (Zarr Object Model). SV gave important updates from NumFOCUS Summit 2023.

**Updates:**

- First meeting for Zarr-Python Benchmarking & Peformance team
    - Notes: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s5VBWqyh_MliVZCy9KK8ZnMy2pIeKF5pTLI2XWZ0MNE/edit?usp=sharing>
    - Subsequent issue: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1527>
- ZEP0006 (by Davis Bennett) : <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zeps/pull/46>

**Meeting Minutes:**

- Intros (favourite tourist place)
    - SV: Himalayas
    - NR: Highway One
    - EP: New Zealand (South Island)
    - GK: Allen Institute works in Light sheet microscopy - favourite tourist place: Pacific North West
    - NZ: University of Maryland, PhD in bioinformatics - Shenandoah Park
    - WF: Pacific North West and Astoria, Oregon
    - DH: Highway One - took a 1.5 days to complete it - but also took many stops
    - MD: Canary Islands in the Atlantic
- NZ: Current state of the V3 implementation
    - SV: Currently WIP
    - Use Zarrita to convert V2 to V3?
    - NR: [Yes!](https://github.com/scalableminds/zarrita/blob/async/zarrita/array_v2.py#L573)
    - NZ: Codec name change for byte to endian - is it going in?
    - NR: Can take place along with a voting
        - It simply takes an array and spits out bytes - V3 requires you to have a codec 
    - NZ: Has written Julia implementation apart Zarr.jl - mostly a prototype implementation
        - Trying to merge what's already in Zarr.jl
- MD: Pangeo meeting - They were wondering when it'll get finalised
    - MD: Done all the things that was asked - now what?
    - SV: Will put it up for technical review and voting process
    - NR: Sending a PR to Zarrita can help in the acceptance
- DB: ZEP0006 - brief overview
    - `JSON` serialisable reprenstation of a Zarr hierarchy
    - Providing a foundation for declarative API rather than procedural 
- SV: Updates from the NumFOCUS Summit 2023
    - Zarr Shards ↔ HDF5 files (<https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/152#issuecomment-1632034874>)
        - POC: <https://github.com/mkitti/hdf5_zarr_shard_demo/blob/main/hdf5_zarr_shard_demo.py>
    - Xvec using Zarr for storage - <https://github.com/xarray-contrib/xvec/issues/48#issuecomment-1716000623>
        - MD: String storage is kind of ragged structure - also they'd store the strings using variable chunking, i.e. ZEP0003
