---
layout: default
title: 9th August
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2023-08-09
parent: 2023 meetings
nav_order: 16
---

# 2023-08-09

**Attending:** Davis Bennett (DB), Sanket Verma (SV), Ryan Williams (RW), Dennis Heimbginer (DH), Ward Fisher (WF), Norman Rzepka (NR), Martin Durrant (MD), Alfonso Ladino Rincon (ALR)

## TL;DR:

SV started the meeting by giving important updates, which included the essential summary of the Zarr-Python working groups. Ryan Williams joined the meeting after a while, so we did a round of intros along with favourite tourist spots. NR shared the voting status for ZEP0002, and MD discussed ZEP0003. After this, DB had some bright ideas for a major version bump for Zarr-Python, which might involve breaking changes!

**Updates:**

- Zarr-Python working groups
    - Benchmarking and performance: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/discussions/1479>
    - Refactoring: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/discussions/1480>
- POC implementation of [ZEP0003](https://zarr.dev/zeps/draft/ZEP0003.html)
    - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1483>
- SciPy 2023 proceedings
    - Talk slides: <https://doi.org/10.25080/gerudo-f2bc6f59-035>
    - Tools update slides: <https://doi.org/10.25080/gerudo-f2bc6f59-038>
- MD: SciPy poster DOI: <https://doi.org/10.25080/gerudo-f2bc6f59-00b>
- WF: Creating async training materials for NetCDF and Zarr with collaboration with sibling organisation having USGS funding - concrete information coming soon - would love feedback from the Zarr community - and potential collaboration

**Meeting Minutes:**

- Introductions with favourite tourist destinations
    - SV: Himalayas
    - DB: Ashville, North Carolina
    - NR: Mediterranean
    - RW: Governor Island
    - WF: Saint Francis Kansas
    - DH: Puget Sound
- NR: Please review and [vote on ZEP2](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/254)
    - Please vote - we have 2.5 months left for the votes
    - First vote already in - Constantine Pape
    - Been using sharding for scalableminds datasets
    - Tensorstore is next in line
- NR: For the OME community: How to [adopt Zarr V3 for OME-Zarr](https://forum.image.sc/t/adopt-zarr-v3-in-ome-zarr/84786)
- MD: ZEP3 implementation in Zarrita
    - MD: Actually it's easy to do in Zarr-Python - happy to do in Zarrita too
    - NR: Did some refactoring - maybe trying again makes sense
    - MD: Not a lot of change - just few lines of code and it just works for V2 - but may break for V3
    - SV: Next steps?
    - MD: Figure out why the tests are broken! - Work on some existing chunk properties which would be different for when the chunks are variable sized
    - MD: Documentation 📖
    - MD: Also collaborators are welcome 🤝🏻
- DB: Anyone thinking to do a major Zarr-Python bump? Like breaking things?
    - MD: Refactoring working group will be focused on that
    - DB: Been playing around with codebase and looking for improvement - getting `bool` in there would be a breaking change
    - DB: Mutable mapping alternative - for store M.M. takes string and returns bytes but what if we change the mapping from tuple of strings to strings? And then iterate over collection of keys - could simplify a lot of key fetching stuff - is a breaking change
    - MD: In favour of this proposal and we should have a discussion - also involves public facing API changes
    - MD: You have nominal support - will be more engaged in benchmarking and performance
    - DB: `meta_array` arguments - dask and xarray takes them and it types information - and what type to return values as
    - MD: Requires a lot of effort! May not be aligned with other functions in the existing codebase and hence lot of effort for implementation
    - DB: Creating array in storage and access with type information
    - DB: Creating group for a single array - don't know if it's useful - need more opinions - also need to look at how the array access properties are handled
    - DB: Xarray were using `get_items` to pluck array out of the group and wanted to change `wrtie_empty_chunks` on the array but the API doesn't let them do that
    - DB: Proposed solution: Make `write_empty_chunks` as arguments for group creation - found it distasteful
    - MD: Facing similar situations in [intake](https://github.com/intake/intake) - Python syntax is not much help here
    - DB: Not using mutable mapping can help with this
    - MD: you could have a context as well
    - SV: Any cons for removing the M.M.?
    - DB: Extra arguments - a custom `get()` function which works similar to `get_item()`
    - MD: You may face resitant on this!
    - MD: A new `array.configure()` method can help you configure the array
    - DB: I don't like it!
    - MD: It is something you're not after! ;)
    - DB: We have more than one ways to get array in a group - would be good to conclude on a single of limited options
- DB: FSStore caches object via FSSPEC?
    - MD: Not necessarily, you can have a local copy of files cache - not there by default, you have to request it
    - DB: `attrs` maintain a cache of it's attribute
    - DB: Maybe caching should be a business for individual stores? - could be a performance optimisation for Zarr-Python
    - MD: In FSSPEC it's done in a layered approach - also the file based caches are going under a re-write atm
    - MD: You have to read the file, cache it and then point it in FSSPEC
