---
layout: default
title: 3rd April
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2024-04-03
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 7
---

# 2024-04-03

**Attending:** Josh Moore (JM), Sanket Verma (SV), Thomas Nicholas (TN), Alfonso Ladino Rincon (ALR), Davis Bennett (DB), Florian Ziemen (FZ), Norman Rzepka (NR), Eric Perlman (EP), Gabor Kovacs (GB)

## TL;DR:

The team discussed updates on the CZI EOSS6 application, upcoming Zarr-Python core-devs meeting, and VirtualiZarr project. Topics included improving chunk loading, cloud storage examples, monthly PR/issue meetings, and resolving ABSStore test failures.

**Updates:**

- CZI EOSS6 Application Update
    - Not funded
    - Looking for other grant opportunities if anyone has ideas
- Zarr-Python core-devs assemble!
    - Please respond to the poll: <https://whenisgood.net/tswj9kd> (meeting timeline: 4/15-4/30)
    - Looking to get the people who *don't* attend the meeting :smile:

**Meeting Minutes:**

- Introductions w/ where did you grow up
    - Sanket - Delhi, India
    - Tom - Small village in english countryside
    - Alfonso - Bogota, Columbia
    - Davis - Chapel Hill, North Carolina
    - Eric - Berkeley, California
    - Josh - Fairhope, Alabama
    - Florian - Places in Germany and US
    - Norman - mid-sized city in Germany
    - Gabor - Chaperone, Hungary    
- VirtualiZarr
    - (Tom: Sanket told me to talk about it in this meeting)
    - [repo](https://github.com/TomNicholas/VirtualiZarr)
    - [Zulip thread](https://ossci.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/423692-Zarr/topic/VirtualiZarr.20and.20chunk.20manifests)
    - TN: _explains VirtualiZarr_
    - DB: Pydantic model for Zarr? 
    - TN: Yes, because it loads in-memory objects
    - DB: Made Pydantic model for Zarr: <https://github.com/janelia-cellmap/pydantic-zarr> - currently under Janelia but can ask to move it under zarr-developers
    - DB: Several class can be decorated in ZP-V3
    - DB: Would be super interested in VirtualiZarr - have already uploaded legacy data to cloud
    - TN: Would be good to go in a direction to have multiple readers for various file formats
    - FZ: One index file has all the metadata in Kerchunk - is there something in your package?
    - TN: Instead of storing chunks in disk you're storing `.JSON`s in memory - which would be language agnostic
    - FZ: Have started using parquet instead of `.JSON` as it doesn't scale up - TN: We can store in parquet as well
    - JM: Could write the filepaths/byte ranges into their own specialized zarr arrays - that would be scalable
    - TN: To deal with the scaling - 
    - JM: Could place in `must_understand` flag while writing ZEP which looks up for Zarr
    - DB: Is concatenation always chunk aligned? - TN: Treating it as chunk aligned for now
    - DB: _shares screen_ and shows `test_array.py` from VirtualiZarr
    - TN: Need to think a bit more about the implication of changing the concatenation style
    - DB: Will create an issue in VirtualiZarr for slicing issue
    - TN: Has there been any resolution? NR: Not yet, to not break the existing API
    - TN: Lazy indexing problem - see xarray for example <https://github.com/pydata/xarray/issues/5081>
    - EP: Will definitely take a look!
    - NR: Steps to standardise it?
    - TN: Waiting for Zarr-Python refactor to complete and then chunk manifest ZEP accepted
- Monthly meetings to close issues and merge PRs
    - <https://ossci.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/423692-Zarr/topic/.5BPROPOSAL.5D.20Monthly.20meetings.20to.20close.20PRs.20.26.20issues>
    - :thumbsup: from Davis, Joe and Josh; thoughts?    
    - EP: Napari did this and there were some good outcomes - PR and issues were merged and closed respectively but also some of them were kept open for continued discussion
    - JM: Would also be good to have them quaterly
    - SV to find a good time and schedule meeting
- The tests related to ABSStore are failing with an internal server error `azure.core.exceptions.HttpResponseError` very frequently these days - any workaround?
    - DB: Pulling it out would be the best idea!
- <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1714> - good to go?
    - Thanks, JM for merging!
- ALR: _shares screen_ and starts representing
    - ALR: Discovered issues
    - TN: Haven't optimised `open_datatree` so the issue is not surprising
    - TN: Development effort is move datatree upstream to Xarray - part of the Xarray
    - ALR: Will be opening issue in datatree repo
    - ALR: Slides: <https://drive.google.com/file/d/1N9Zq4Uly3O1bNYzFVfeFNavyyS1Jn26o/view?usp=sharing>
- DB: _shares screen_ and shows PyDantic-Zarr new features
- TABLED
    - Appetite for Jupyter notebooks in tutorials? - <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1163>
