---
layout: default
title: 21st February
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2024-02-21
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 4
---

# 2024-02-21

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Josh Moore (JM), Norman Rzepka (NR), Ward Fisher (WF)

## TL;DR:

Refactoring is progressing but facing challenges; aiming for a pre-release on PyPI. Discussion on netcdf v3 continues, and a new Rust implementation was noted. Plan to mark implementations and extend invitations for collaboration.

**Updates:**

- Lots going on with refactoring, v3, etc.
- Join the OSSCi ZulipChat here: <https://ossci.zulipchat.com/>
    - Blog post coming out soon!

**Meeting Minutes:**

- NR: refactoring is going well. Bloat is possible, though. Would like to have something ready in a month or two. Won't be able to incorporate all wishes. E.g., virtual zarr array.
  - JM: propose finding a time that more (all?) core devs can't get to.
  - SV: sent out a poll already. Joe on vacation until the 26th.
  - SV: preparing a summary for John. (JM: blog post?)
  - NR: question of what the scope of the refactoring is. concerned about momentum. could lose steam/attention.
  - JM: a step I would like to see is a pypi pre release
  - NR: need a feature freeze for that. e.g., should the array class be lazy?
- WF: on v3 in netcdf? Dennis is tapering off, but it is going. Working on a plan for moving forward. Bit slower but not abandoned. Nothing existential.
  - Another developer Tara will be sitting in on the community meetings.
- JM: another rust implementation <https://github.com/LDeakin/zarrs>
  - NR: they have a sharding implementation
  - JM to SV: probably should mark those on the implementation list (per ZEP?)
    - NR: i.e. JBMS compatibility list
    - Also on OME-Zarr.
      - Current versioning doesn't scale well.
      - Major version.
      - cf. HTML and features.
  - JM to SV: extend an invitation zarrs (LDeakin)
