---
layout: default
title: 10th January
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2024-01-10
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 1
---

# 2024-01-10

**Attending:** Sanket Verma (SV), Davis Bennett (DB), Alan Liddell (AL), Norman Rzepka (NR), Jeremy Maitin-Shepard (JMS), Gābor Kovācs (GB), Josh Moore (JM) very late

## TL;DR:

Updates include holiday cleaning for Zarr-Python Core Devs, Norman Rzepka joining the team, progress on Zarr-Python Refactor and B&P WG, and plans for participation in GSoC. Discussion revolved around Zarr-Python V3.0 beta release, a new numcodecs release, and considerations for chunk layout in sharded arrays.

**Updates:**

- Happy New Year! 🥂
- Holiday cleaning for the Zarr-Python Core Devs teams - active, emeritus, and former
    - Norman Rzepka will be joining Zarr-Python Core Devs 🎉
- Zarr-Python Refactor and B&P WG updates
    - Davis is working on array API, Joe on storage layer and Norman on a new codec mechanism
    - Aiming for late January release
    - B&P group is looking to participate in GSoC this year - they have a couple of ideas

**Meeting Minutes:**

- NR: Zarr-Python V3.0 is going to be beta release
    - NR: Trying to keep the momentum
    - NR: Looking for feedback
    - DB: Re-think the user facing API - currently the stuff is according to Zarr-Python V2.0
    - AL: Is there a design doc?
        - SV: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1583/>
        - NR: Looking to add new features which are V3 specific
- New release before Zarr-Python V3.0 goes out?
    - DB: Go for it!
    - SV: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1557?>
    - DB: Doesn't break existing code
    - JMS: Dropped 3.8 in Tensorstore
    - NR: :thumbsup: 
    - DB: Also matters to maintain with the community
- New numcodecs release?
    - DB: ZSTD bug was fixed, so getting a new release would be good
    - AL: Plan to include Blosc2 in the next release?
    - DB: Why do people want Blosc2?
    - AL: People are asking for it
    - JMS: At low-level Blosc1 and Blosc2 are similar
- JMS: We should not add new codecs into Zarr-Python V3.0
    - NR: Open question on how numcodecs would operate with Zarr-Python V3.0? 
    - JMS: Numcodecs could serialise the metadata for V2 and V3 - share the compression code - add a new class separately
    - NR: Reimplementing the codecs class in ZP V3.0 - should we keep numcodecs?
    - JMS: Numcodecs use Zarr V3 metadata - pretty minimal - would be good to look at the existing dependencies of numcodecs
    - SV: PyPi stats help?
        - <https://pypistats.org/packages/numcodecs>
        - <https://pypistats.org/packages/zarr>
    - JMS: could help thinking through the JSON API
    - DB: Would be good to clear some cobwebs on numcodecs
    - JMS: No benefit of changing the V2 metadata
    - NR: What ZP would do in the future with numcodecs?
    - DB: How bad is it to have C compiled stuff with Python?
    - JMS: Somewhat advantageous to have the C compiled code
    - DB: Assuming numcodecs won't break ZP in any way and numocodecs would follow along the changes in ZP in the future
- DB: Thinning stores from Zarr-Python - we could do something similar for numcodecs as well
    - SV: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1274>
    - DB: Martin suggested cramjam - a rust library
- SV: Visualise sharded array using Neuroglancer
    - JMS: Yes!
    - DB: Wanted to work on the documentation and wanted Janelia HHMI to pay for it
    - SV: Any apetite for user facing API documentation?
    - JMS: Yes! Is on to-do list
- NR: JMS - have you thought about doing configurable layout of how chunks are placed inside a shard? 
    - JMS: Mortan order is tricky and it's one specific order - didn't make significant progress here - would be interested in moving forward with this
    - NR: Wanted to support a few orders - struggling how to design that in API? - have some presets could be a way to specify that - how to do runtime configuration?
    - JMS: Putting it in metadata would be good way forward
    - DB: Has anyone used Hilbert curve?
    - NR: Has been using Mortan order
    - JMS: May complicate things with Hilbert order
    - NR: Would think about how the metadata chunk would look like - will write something at some point
    - JMS: Multiple levels of sharding may help - can have extra level of index which could be complex
    - DB: HDF5 has some filters which does data transformation - some filters have mask which tells which codec ran or not
    - NR: It could be codec itself too! Could be useful or compactful
    - JMS: Looking for fixed size or variable size chunks? NR: Fixed size.
    - NR: In parallel writing you can't update the index
    - JMS: Blosc has something similar
