---
layout: default
title: 20th March
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2024-03-20
parent: 2024 meetings
nav_order: 6
---

# 2024-03-20

**Attending:** Davis Bennett (DB), Sanket Verma (SV), Janos Zimmermann (JZ), Gābor Kovācs (GB)

## TL;DR:

The team discussed the recent HTTP Extension meeting and potential community interest, async loading in Zarr-Python, and optimizing chunk sizes for S3. Other topics included PR reviews, tutorial examples for cloud storage, Repo-Review suggestions, fixing issues with Pytest, and updates on Zarr-Python V3 and N5 support.

**Updates:**

- Join ZulipChat: <https://ossci.zulipchat.com/>
- HTTP Extension meeting took place on 3/14
    - Trying to figure out the best way forward, i.e. a ZEP or not
    - Guaging interest and use cases from others in the community

**Meeting Minutes:**

- DB: Zarr-Python doesn't use async while loading the chunks - but it's fairly easily to parallelize the chunks as they are mostly files
    - JZ: User should have ability/freedom to do parallelism on their own
    - DB: No concrete proposals rn - scheduling the reading of chunks via cloud
    - JZ: Using Zarr rn to write data to S3 - chunk size 1MB
    - DB: It's Dask fault - every dask task cost 1ms for task grapher - with million Zarr chunks you'll be spending a lot of time on dask graph
    - JZ: Rechunking
    - DB: Rechunking on Dask array?
    - JZ: Yes!
    - DB: Issues you'll face:
        - no. of task will be v. v. large
        - Complexity in the order of O(no. of chunks)
    - JZ: Got speed of 1TB/S for local - got 200MB/S when switched to S3 - S3 is inserting keys and putting it S3 store
    - DB: Makes sense to benchmark S3 until you timeout - at some point you start getting error code - once you're there you can't go any faster
    - JZ: Currently trying to find the sweet size of chunks - will also look into Dask
    - DB: Dask introduces some complexity - I use Dask in it's primitive form - and write custom functions for other stuff
- Building on <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1713>
    - Should we also add similar examples for AWS and Azure?
    - Or move the existing material from [tutorial section](https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial.html#distributed-cloud-storage) to examples?
    - DB: Basically fall under the tutorials sections
    - SV: Will ask on the PR if any objections to put it under `tutorials.rst`
- Dimitri is working on applying Repo-Review suggestions to Zarr-Python `main`
    - Any reason to not have in `V3` branch?
    - DB: If there's nothing disrupting the day-to-day work it's good to have those PRs - we can always bring the stuff later in V3
- Fixing <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1671>
    - PR by Davis: <https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1714/> - any objections?
    - DB: Looks good for now but we should also check what changes does Pytest 8.0.1 brings
- GB: Any new updates to Zarr-Python V3?
    - DB: Will be funded until May to work on Zarr-Python by Earthmover
    - DB: Do you use N5?
    - GB: Little bit
    - DB: There's a proposal to remove N5 from Zarr-Python - you'd need to install N5py to work with N5
    - DB: Saalfeld is making changes/developing N5 - adding major versions
    - GB: N5 may support V3 - had a chat with Saalfeld
