README.md, before:

# Zarr Community Meetings

## Important links:

- `Agenda`: https://hackmd.io/tFcffc__QRuo1UdGcGUbsg
- `Zoom Link`: https://zoom.us/j/300670033?pwd=OFhjV0FHQmhHK2FYbGFRVnBPMVNJdz09
- `Google Calendar`: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_ba2k79i3u0lkf49vo0jre27j14%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FBerlin

## About Community Calls

Zarr community meetings take place every two weeks where maintainers, contributors and the overall general community get together generally for an hour to discuss ongoing issues, features, bugs, processes or anything important for the development and progress of Zarr. The agenda for the meeting is open and anyone can add items to it. The standing agenda for the community meeting is mentioned above.

We’re always looking to discuss new ideas, implementations, research or anything of interest to Zarr. If you think you have something to share with the Zarr community please join us via this [link](https://zoom.us/j/300670033?pwd=OFhjV0FHQmhHK2FYbGFRVnBPMVNJdz09). New contributors looking for tips and guidance are most welcome to join us. We’d be more than happy to reserve a slot for them at the end of the meeting.

Check out the Google Calendar for the meeting [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_ba2k79i3u0lkf49vo0jre27j14%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FBerlin).

Download the [.ics](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c_ba2k79i3u0lkf49vo0jre27j14%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics) file and add it to your calendar so won't miss any of our meetings!

---

Commit message:

Initial commit for Zarr community call website

README.md, after:

# Zarr Community Meetings

## Important links:

- `Agenda`: https://hackmd.io/tFcffc__QRuo1UdGcGUbsg
- `Zoom Link`: https://zoom.us/j/300670033?pwd=OFhjV0FHQmhHK2FYbGFRVnBPMVNJdz09
- `Google Calendar`: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_ba2k79i3u0lkf49vo0jre27j14%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FBerlin

## About Community Calls

Zarr community meetings take place every two weeks where maintainers, contributors and the overall general community get together generally for an hour to discuss ongoing issues, features, bugs, processes or anything important for the development and progress of Zarr. The agenda for the meeting is open and anyone can add items to it. The standing agenda for the community meeting is mentioned above.

We’re always looking to discuss new ideas, implementations, research or anything of interest to Zarr. If you think you have something to share with the Zarr community please join us via this [link](https://zoom.us/j/300670033?pwd=OFhjV0FHQmhHK2FYbGFRVnBPMVNJdz09). New contributors looking for tips and guidance are most welcome to join us. We’d be more than happy to reserve a slot for them at the end of the meeting.

Check out the Google Calendar for the meeting [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_ba2k79i3u0lkf49vo0jre27j14%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FBerlin).

Download the [.ics](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/c_ba2k79i3u0lkf49vo0jre27j14%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics) file and add it to your calendar so won't miss any of our meetings!

## Contributing to ZEPs

The meeting notes in this repo are published automatically on the web @
https://zarr.dev/community-calls/. If you wish to contribute to the website, please build
the website locally on your machine. Building this website requires [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/).
Refer to [this](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/) to install Jekyll.

Steps to contribute:

``` 
1. Fork this repo
2. cd into the forked repo
3. Type $ bundle exec jekyll serve --incremental
4. Open a browser and go to localhost:4000/community-calls/ to see the website
5. Make desired changes, save them and refresh localhost:4000/community-calls/ to see the changes
```

Once done, push your changes to your fork and open a
[GitHub pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).

---
