---
layout: default
title: 29th July
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-07-29
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 15
---

# 29th July, 2020

Attending: John Kirkham, Matthias Bussonnier, Josh Moore, Ryan
Abernathy,

Ward Fisher, Martin Durant, Nicholas Sofroniew, Alistair Miles,

> Dennis Heimbigner, Andrew

Apologies:

-   Standing items

    -   **~~Introductions~~**~~: new joinees should feel welcome to
        > introduce themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.~~

    -   **Alistair time off, Report**: All was good.

    -   **Quantstack: **

        -   Some administration work remaining. (John to ping, done)
        -   Scope of project: C vs. C++
        -   Which stores to implement
        -   Some boundary issues between libraries (xarray+dask+zarr v
            xtensor+zarr)
        -   Support not-multiple-of-8bit types?
        -   Dynamic extensions should be find. All a question of
            tradeoffs (DLL vs. header-only library vs. …)
        -   How much of numcodecs to implement? Cover next Friday?

-   Blosc project, applying for EOSS grant (Josh)

    -   Blosc 2 codec

    -   NDLZ codec

    -   [*Caterva*](https://github.com/Blosc/Caterva)

        -   What is the main motivation for separate development?
        -   What functionalities do they offer (that zarr doesn't)?

-   TileDB (Ryan)

    -   Reached out for a conversation.

    -   30M Series-A funding round. 20 people, full-time.

    -   Launching TileDB Cloud

    -   Different motivations. Discussed avenues for collaboration.

    -   Looking at xarray backend. Interested in netcdf compatibility.

    -   Discussed how tiledb format works. Clever things. Don’t
        > outsource compression. Have 2 tiers of chunking. 64KB at the
        > low-level to align with L2 caches, etc. Also works around
        > having too many files.

    -   Strategy for the relationship.

    -   Dennis: single implementation problem like HDF5?

        -   Ryan: that’s the benefit of Zarr is the openness of the
            process and the multiple implementations.
        -   Martin: simplicity is worth a lot if you are going to read
            all of your data in reasonable chunks in parallel
        -   Alistair: would like to see benchmarks for different access
            patterns.
        -   Ryan: to do it right requires dedicated funding (but would
            also like to see it done). CS PhD student? Worse to do it
            wrong rather than not at all.
        -   To TileDB: “Go for it”

    -   Nick: was also reached out to.

        -   Perhaps reslicing is a benefit?
        -   Martin: in place updating?
        -   Ryan: Both analysis-optimized on-disk formats
        -   Martin: look at some of their implementations, e.g.
            subranges. Possible, but depends on which compression
            formats.
        -   Ryan: dask has dask v. spark page. Very honest. We should
            try to do the same: v HDF5 and v TileDB (+1)
        -   Nick: see NASA comparison --
            [*https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20200001178.pdf*](https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20200001178.pdf)
        -   John: inclusivity of the spec. Engaging on spec development?

-   **Add Community Topics Here**

    -   Rechunker (Ryan)

        -   [*https://github.com/pangeo-data/rechunker*](https://github.com/pangeo-data/rechunker)

        -   [*https://rechunker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/*](https://rechunker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

        -   [*https://speakerdeck.com/rabernat/rechunker-esip-summer-2020*](https://speakerdeck.com/rabernat/rechunker-esip-summer-2020)

        -   Nick: if you don’t know the use case yet, do you pick the
            intermediate format? Ryan: good question, probably, yes.
            Emergent best practices. Suggests figuring out how to peak
            into the chunks.

        -   NB: would be good to have wheels of numcodecs!

            -   JK: PR (
                > [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/numcodecs/pull/224*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/numcodecs/pull/224)
                > ) tries to solve this, but could benefit from some
                > reviews :)

            -   Ryan: No docker. Fast installation from a .txt

            -   Matthias: requirement on the C implementation? A static
                > executable. (Ryan: +1)

        -   Nick: useful for non-orthogonal views? Not yet, though you
            could use a large number of chunks in the intermediate

        -   Benefits from Martin’s async work

