---
layout: default
title: 23rd November
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-11-23
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 24
---

# 23rd November, 2020 (SPEC call)

**Attending**: Josh Moore, David Brochart, Matthias Bussonnier, Sylvain
Corlay, John Kirkham, Ryan Williams

-   SC: Very late. Difficult if it gets moved later.

    -   Earliest for Matthias? It’s fine. 5-6 AM

    -   RyanW: 7-8 AM California until 7-8PM Frances

        -   Will try to move things around next time so it’s still not
            too long.

-   EOSS Presentation

    -   1 minute & 15 minute

        -   10min of presentation 5 of questions
        -   Accessible to broader technical audience

    -   David: some slides that would be ok for 15 minute (3-4pp)

    -   Matthias: 50% David, 50% Matthias, and a little shared context.

    -   John: two short to split it into 3 parts.

    -   BD: looking at xtensor-zarr slides

        -   NB: zarray as a dask-like experience on chunked arrays (i.e.
            beyond just the storage part of zarr)

    -   MB to add his content to BD’s slides.

        -   What is Zarr? (2-3 min)

            -   Distributed arrays, implementation in python

            -   More cross-language

        -   Zarr-Python

            -   (clear distinction to “Zarr”)

        -   Zarr v3

            -   (Waiting on feedback)

            -   Show current working implementation

            -   Screenshots, etc.

    -   RW: 10m. (a) Talk about the project (b) state of spec (c)
        > xtensor-zarr

        -   MB: can start & make the transition smoother

        -   BD: agreed, too technical. Will simplify at a higher level.

        -   JK: covering the points that were in the [*original
            proposal*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nkuvXemo2WDDrLxPc5R7ojzBObIVx-Ifs8sZVTHzbT4/edit?ts=5d2ca30e#heading=h.cb4zl7i3vio4)

            -   Not enough time to cover governance

        -   JM: feel free to steal from [*"public zarr
            data"*](http://blog.openmicroscopy.org/file-formats/community/2020/11/04/zarr-data/)

        -   JM: Should get everyone invited to slack. RW: will do.

        -   RW: Recorded dress-rehearsal. Sync again next week?

        -   JM: one minute pitch? MB: will try to do that as well.

        -   RW: issue? MB: yes, then the recording can be available for
            others who aren’t there.

-   V3 spec sync-up (largely tabled)

    -   MB: Delete changed to erase

    -   MB: Distinction between writable and deletable

    -   JM: Timeline?

