---
layout: default
title: 6th May
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-05-06
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 8
---

# 6th May, 2020

Attending: Matthias Bussonnier, Josh Moore, Dennis, RyanW, RyanA, Martin
Durant,

Ward Fisher, James B., John K., Alistair, Ralf, Nicholas S.

Apologies:

-   Standing items

    -   **Introductions**: new joinees should feel welcome to introduce
        > themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.

    -   Matthias: Python developer for \~8yrs. **Joined Quansight 5 days
        > ago**. Starting looking at Zarr. Focusing on the v3 spec.
        > Catching up. Questions coming on GitHub. (French in
        > California)

        -   RyanA: previous experience with Zarr? Heard about it. But
            haven’t played with it. Seen talks. Etc. cf. Dask
        -   Martin: Plans for Zarr at Quansight. Ralf: someone at Q. is
            starting to use & contribute (Andrew) for a client project.
            Generally, Zarr is and will become more a part of the core
            Python ecosystem. So long-term. James: one client is
            interested in Zarr and supporting it.

-   (Pre-item) Dennis: ok to share a gdoc with spec comments? Sure.

-   Ryan A: **OGC Zarr Community Standard Proposal:**

    -   Application:
        > [*Community_Standard_Justification_Zarr_16-113r2*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TWs4NjddROo6aRTuabqDVaJAfIOJ2MjoQeM7iL2x3C4/edit?usp=sharing)

    -   Essentially certify standards and their implementors. Also in
        > the web map area.

    -   Proposing OGC as a community standard (i.e. outside the main
        > process)

    -   Propose to sign off by the steering council (minimally). But by
        > all means, suggest changes.

    -   John: how simple to update to the next version? Presumably
        > easier.

        -   Standards are open. Membership is closed (voting members
            support the body)
        -   Any issues yet? Nope. Feedback from a few people. Drop in
            replacement for HDF5 makes it a pretty clear case. But do
            need supporting members.
        -   Josh: any experience with standards bodies? Ralf: not
            NumFOCUS. Some experience in semiconductor world. Painful.
            Lots of money at stake. Alistair: W3C consortium and a few
            WGs. Though not likely in scope. Josh: might be interesting
            to come back to PROV/json-ld in the future.
        -   Josh: ISO standards body for biobanks/bioimaging

-   Josh on bioimaging, time permitting. (napari, dask, DICOM, …)

    -   [*https://forum.image.sc/t/publication-of-idr0083-sars-cov-2-up-close-in-a-human-organoid/37163*](https://forum.image.sc/t/publication-of-idr0083-sars-cov-2-up-close-in-a-human-organoid/37163)

    -   [*https://twitter.com/notjustmoore/status/1256232842755014656*](https://twitter.com/notjustmoore/status/1256232842755014656)

    -   [*https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py*](https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py)

    -   Alistair: few thoughts. 2 dimensions:

        -   Good to separate protocol extensions for usage conventions.
            Multiscale likely falls under convention. Need a recommended
            approach. Ok to use docs repo, but shouldn’t be necessary.

    -   Martin: would have included link to the specification? Yes.

    -   RyanA: sounds similar to xarray. Netcdf into zarr 2 years ago,
        > just by defining metadata. … don’t want all domain specifics
        > into zarr

        -   Josh: agreed, but do we want a general “image” in zarr
            space.

        -   Nicholas: are you thinking ome-xarray?

        -   Dennis: from NetCDF POV, have tried to be as domain-agnostic
            as possible. But have cfconventions.org which are attributes
            which are domain-specific. (Largely atmospheric.) Otherwise,
            find yourself in an endless chain of adding things to the
            spec.

        -   Nicholas: microscopy community is crying out for something,
            even just cfconventions. Dennis: likely follow the same
            path.

        -   RyanA: a lot of fields can use the [*NetCDF
            model*](https://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/docs/netcdf_data_model.html)
            with cfconventions. CDM enhances HDF model by defining
            dimensions. Beyond just arrays with names. Encode the
            relationships between arrays which can get you pretty far.
            Good generic model. Add conventions on top of it. Goal is to
            achieve NetCDF support in Zarr. Easy to implement at the
            xarray level. Primarily needed to add what the array
            dimensions are. @Dennis? Ward: have looked, yes.

        -   Alistair: is that the root of the question? Does the new
            attribute need documenting? A short document might suffice.
            “We’ve added this into zarr to …” Shortest spec in a tweet…
            RyanA: opening a document against xarray documentation.

            -   Intake support for zarr groups as catalogs:
                > [*https://github.com/intake/intake/pull/491*](https://github.com/intake/intake/pull/491)

            -   In general, what’s the approach for decoupling

        -   RyanA (from chat):
            [*https://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/docs/netcdf_data_model.html*](https://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/docs/netcdf_data_model.html)

        -   Nick: happy (as a user) if the answer is OME on NetCDF or
            whatever.

        -   I.e. Alistair: need to

        -   Martin: not clear that this convention is necessarily tied
            to zarr.

            -   Not opposed to having a convenient place in zarr-specs
                > to add things. But not everyone needs to use it.

            -   One caveat would be to not specify things overly
                > zarr-centric.

        -   (Ward left)

        -   Alistair: corollary is that any docs we host (like the code)
            are going to need some process … i.e. another governance PR.
            (protect us in case not everyone is friendly)

            -   Martin: could see being less restrictive for conventions
                > than core/extensions likely, but we could \_start\_
                > off just as strict.

            -   RyanA: slippery slope. Will Zarr become a standards
                > body?

            -   Martin: perhaps on conda-forge? Make sure things are
                > *sound*. (Years down the line)

            -   Alistair: “**zarr-forge”! :-)**

            -   Dennis: a problem that NetCDF has had with the HDFGroup
                > is the number of changes that are made that are not
                > publicized. Just be as open as possible.

            -   Alistair: → process! (cf. W3C: editors’ draft → working
                > draft → … → recommendation track)

            -   Dennis: cf cfconventions group - process has become time
                > consuming. Need to be able to relatively say yes or
                > no. Nick: why? Too many committees? Process isn’t well
                > defined whether or not something will be adopted. Wait
                > until all say go. I.e. who is going to be the decider?
                > Trust is critical.

            -   Alistair: fundamental tension -- moving quickly but with
                > consensus… Key: Finding a critical number of people
                > who can work together and having a good process. Need
                > to get into the details of that.

            -   Matthias: have experience with too big steering councils
                > and death by decision making. A question on the
                > process: what about companies that are willing to give
                > money to influence decisions.

            -   Josh: recommendation from NumFOCUS on driving commercial
                > money via the roadmap.

            -   Matthias: but what about having payers see drafts
                > beforehand? (even without decision making powers)

            -   Alistair: would prefer to always work in the open

-   Dennis: if you are interested in broader use, perhaps consider a
    **single file format** for Zarr beyond drivers for zips.
    *Standardize* that representation.

    -   Allows zarr to leave the cloud community and be used by anyone.

    -   Microscopy e.g.? NS: certainly issues have been raised.

    -   Matthias: zarr in TIFF ….

    -   Alistair: envisaged with v3 having storage *specs*

        -   First was the DirectoryStore, than sqlite, dbm, …
        -   Considered picking one of the single file ones early one.

    -   Nicholas: often difference isn’t understood, so good to have
        > someone else chosen.

    -   Martin: place for fsspec to have an opinion (wants to regard
        > *everything* as a filesystem).

    -   Matthias: you will have issues no matter what with FAT32 limits.
        > Martin: good to have a mixture.

    -   Dennis: have also experimented with **streaming services**, take
        > some representation of dataset and stream it in a compact,
        > serialized form. Another issue to consider. E.g. tried
        > Protobufs.

    -   Matthias: BNL has unique identifiers pointing to files…

    -   Dennis: people assume this is only for the cloud...

    -   Nicholas: would love to get access to icons…

    -   Dennis: would be good if that format weren’t too difficult to
        > implement…

`Image 2`

-   -   Martin: good to note down the tension between one big and many
        > small

    -   John: previously used transforming e.g. to zip, then back and
        > form generally

    -   Josh: tree of drivers perhaps?

    -   Dennis: reimplementing a file system. Interpet a node in the
        > tree with this software.

    -   Matthias: an appeal is to open the directory store and things
        > are self-descriptive. A communication issue with the end-user.
        > Especially with non-power-users. If it’s hard for them to get
        > all of a dataset, then they are unhappy.

    -   Alistair: understanding the use cases…

    -   Matthias: sqlite on NFS is a nightmare (corruption)

-   Matthias: **yearly user survey**. Good idea. Never done that before.
    Publicize everywhere that is possible. NetCDF mailing list.
    Image.sc. confocal listserv. Gets better and better over time.
    Matthias can try to do it. Alistair to create an issue to capture
    this.

-   Governance at 20:30 UK … naja. See the above.

