---
layout: default
title: 8th April
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-04-08
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 6
---

# 8th April, 2020

Attending: Josh M, Ward F, Nick S, Ryan A, Martin D, Ryan W, James B.,
Matt M., Alistair (21:00)

Apologies: John K,

-   Standing items

    -   **Introductions**: new joinees should feel welcome to introduce
        > themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.

-   Community (max. 30min)

    -   Ryan A: checking in, encouraging Martin’s fsspec PR. Question of
        > how to handle all the possible backends. What’s in the
        > library. What’s an optional dep. Fan of fsspec approach --
        > uniform API for many storage layers. Question of design.

    -   Martin: PoC
        > ([*\#546*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/546))
        > working, but haven’t touched it in a couple of weeks. Interest
        > is in abstracting out backends. Various issues like nested v.
        > non, consolidated or not. Tricky for someone to build a new
        > backend. Possibly to be driven by kwargs. Or a layered
        > approach. Simplifies usage. Cf. HTTP backends. Either make
        > them unnecessary or let them live elsewhere.

        -   Ryan A. because of the resolving logic. But multi-language
            support is at question: might make other languages harder.
            James: concerns about other languages? Ryan: if can write
            into mongo DB using fsspec, then what does that mean for
            other libraries. Josh: seems it’s if you need a specific
            library for reading out of a particular backend (if the URI
            itself doesn’t get put into the metadata itself). Martin:
            each backend has its own arguments. Not sure how to get the
            other language communities to care about that spec. Ryan W:
            feels ok. Different than having pickled objects in Zarr.

            -   **Ryan A: propose to depend on fsspec**

            -   Martin: and deprecate stories that are covered by fsspec

            -   Ryan A: for example, remove mongo store -- why do we
                > have it but not s3 backend (because s3fs solves that
                > problem)

        -   Josh: next steps? Martin: wasn’t sure about the
            behavior/tests of nested storage. Tests pass locally but not
            on CI. Trying to reverse engineering the tests. (Can handle
            consolidation). Need tests that can run in CI. Josh: can
            take a look at the N5 issue

        -   James: just fsspec store or multiple? Martin: the former,
            just reading the URI.

        -   Martin: Fsspec doesn’t currently have any async
            functionality (cf.
            [*\#536*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/536)).

    -   James: v3 spec status. Several issues/PRs opened. Would be a
        > good time if anyone has concerns. Like: node names, partial
        > chunk reading, … Trying to get some consensus.

        -   Ryan A: would be useful to have Zarr registered with open
            geospatial as a specification (
            [*https://www.ogc.org/standards#*](https://www.ogc.org/standards#)
            ). Not arduous. Gives some the *ability* to even use zarr.
        -   James:
            [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/42*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/42)
        -   Ryan A. may need to do it himself, but as a heads up.
        -   Could send the zarr-python v2 RST.

    -   Matt: nice block webassembly example (says Josh)

        -   [*https://kitware.github.io/itk-vtk-viewer/app/?fileToLoad=https://thewtex.github.io/allen-ccf-itk-vtk-zarr/average_template_50_chunked.zarr*](https://kitware.github.io/itk-vtk-viewer/app/?fileToLoad=https://thewtex.github.io/allen-ccf-itk-vtk-zarr/average_template_50_chunked.zarr)

    -   Josh: workin on a Java microservice *a la *xpublish

    -   Ward: C library slotted for this month. Writes to S3 on local
        > abstraction. Dennis got access to ncar s3 store testing
        > remotely. Won’t be in the next release, but a maintenance
        > release (4.7) comes first. Linking against s3 C++ library.
        > TBD. Some issues when installing.

        -   Supporting files? Yes. Zip files? Don’t know. Will find out.
        -   Ryan A: would be good to include in the **spec** section so
            that implementers can implement.
        -   Ward: if it were in the spec, it would be clearer what needs
            to be implemented.
        -   Martin: currently outside of the spec
        -   James: should definitely discuss

-   Governance

    -   See:
        > [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/governance/pull/9*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/governance/pull/9)

    -   James: seems like you're in the org and core or not. Can we add
        > people to the organization but without commit rights. At least
        > took away from the document. Martin: that’s how dask does it.
        > Nick: discussed this. Unfortunate that teams aren’t public. In
        > dask, do they have a GH team? James: there is not.

        -   **Tl;dr** -- Josh to add “contributor” team / status to the
            governance (unless someone else does it first)

        -   James: open question of what the criteria. For example

            -   (dask) 2-3 core-devs have to agree

            -   Anyone with a commit…

            -   All of the above ...

-   Any other business

    -   Nick: held off on inviting PIMS developer

    -   Arewemeetingyet.com
        > [*link*](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2020-03-25/20:00/b/Zarr%2FN5%20community%20conference%20call)
        > is off by an hour (indicates this meeting should start an hour
        > later than we started today)

        -   Josh: ***ACK***! Time zone. Worrisome. I’ll stop using that
            link. Does anyone have a **good** way of reliably linking to
            something that resolves all the timezone issues?

    -   Nick/Matt: spatial image work (on rectilinear grids...)

        -   Discussed how to share images with xarray

        -   Common issue in scientific imaging (bio/med) space

        -   Having some definitions would be good.

        -   Concepts like: x,y,z,t,c Also: scale/translate/rotate

        -   Ryan A: sounds like
            [*http://cfconventions.org*](http://cfconventions.org)

            -   Spec sits on top of netcdf

            -   Nick: how does netcdf sit with zarr/xarray

            -   Ryan A: xarray has confused things abit. Allows us to
                > experiment with things in the netcdf model that aren’t
                > netcdf. We can write netcdf to zarr but it’s not
                > netcdf. Been a several year process to re-sync.
                > (“breaking to innovate”)

            -   Cfconventions isn’t about file formats. About metadata.
                > Nice document. Lucky to have it.

            -   Nick: where does it come from? Ward: older than 8 years
                > (To the question of how old is CF, version 1.0 is
                > dated October 28, 2003 ). Very active mailing list.
                > Not intrinsically linked to netcdf but is the set of
                > conventions. Very strictly defined terms.

            -   Josh: agreed

            -   Ryan A: some sociology about how geoscience got here

                -   Big “CMIP” … \[Ryan can add this\]
                -   Internal Panel on Climate Change process
                -   Before 2000, just as much heterogeneity
                -   Then there was an agreement to align models and
                    store data in a central repository.
                -   Galvanized the community

            -   Nick: bio/medical is so fragmented. What’s the value add
                > for individual users. Napari can play a roll. Josh:
                > hard to

            -   Ryan A: zarr is about arrays and numbers. Martin: even
                > if convenient place to put the metadata.

            -   Josh: was previously thinking of using zarr specs to get
                > zarr to

            -   Nick: need to know dimensions for analysis interop.

            -   Ryan A: before xarray didn’t have much in-memory
                > exchange. It was all, read a NC and write a NC.

            -   Matt: having well-defined metadata representations is
                > critical, but others will have things *beyond* the
                > specification

            -   Josh: have LOTS of thoughts. Table for another
                > conversation.

            -   Martin: something like mimetypes at a single key?
                > *Possibly*.

    -   … catching up Alistair … (Ryan A & Ward leave)

        -   Alistair: extension is mentioned with a “must_understand”
            flag of whether or not something can be interpreted without
            understanding the extension. Domain-specific bits could live
            anywhere. Just needs publishing. Might be nice to work it
            through with the multiscale use case. Martin: another
            example would be a simple “type” attribute.
        -   Ryan W: here's a big writeup of an approach to "plugins"
            that came out of discussions i had at the CZI event with
            Josh and John:
            [*zarr-specs#49*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/49#issuecomment-591821015)
            It's a bit lower-level while Alistair's is higher-level,
            might be nice to work toward the middle between them.
            Alistair & Martin to read through it.
        -   Alistair: good to have a large set of concrete examples for
            polishing out the spec.
        -   Ryan W: ...walk through of \#49… sparse-arrays are a good
            case.
        -   Josh: ...walk through of the multiscale use case for turning
            a group into a type of array
        -   Alistair: some kind of “hook” so a specialist library can
            return something more useful. Graceful degradation. Actual
            plugins that hook into machinery.
        -   Ryan W: minimal onus on writers. No need to register.
            Maximally flexible. Alistair: good if every can publish, but
            good to collect some/all into some registry.
        -   Alistair: re: types of extensions -- spare arrays are
            similar to multiscale in that you can still provide *some*
            functionality. N5 case is different. If you don’t understand
            it, you can’t process it. Declared in the entrypoint
            metadata to give the user feedback on what needs doing.

