---
layout: default
title: 26th August
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-08-26
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 17
---

# 26th August, 2020

**Attending**: Matthias, Alistair (on mobile internet), , Josh Moore,
John Kirkham, Martin Durant, Ryan Williams

-   Standing items

    -   **Introductions**: new joinees should feel welcome to introduce
        > themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.

Josh: Spent last week refactoring our library on zarr. We're defining
conventions on top of zarr. When have links from one place to another,
need to avoid recursion. Took some rewriting.

John: Did you see issue Alistair filed about extensions? Have writable
consolidated \[...\]

-   [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/82*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/82)

...

Josh: Use case, generate a segmented image, want to write it back into
the zarr, with metadata saying it belongs to an image.

John: When creating array with segmentation, know some attributes?

Josh: I can make it work. But if testing five different segmentation
routines, they'd need to sync to get metadata updated correctly.

Matthias: Two related issues. In v3 attributes file is merged into
array/group metadata. Another issue about really large attributes.

Josh: What Martin says makes sense in lots of use cases, consolidated,
be careful when to update.

... heading towards use .zattrs a lot, including for links between
arrays. Alistair: may simply have to activate locking (or handle it in
the application)

Matthias does that point to needing a server?

...

Josh: Need upsert. Like in Mongo.

Martin: At the moment, metadata is a file. Content is opaque. But if
used something like a database, could do something more fine-grained.

Josh: Could attributes be a higher-level interface?

Matthias: If listable store, can explode attributes, have one file per
attribute. V3 also has no assumption of listing of groups and arrays.

Josh: Some more things to add in comparisons with tiledb. They have
query methods over all metadata. Searchable metadata store.

...

Martin: Great if could have efficient ways to transfer between storage
systems. JSON blobs transfer well, e.g., some databases ...

Matthias: What is zarr format at rest? What is it when it's being used?
Assumptions about zarr when it's in use, may be different from when it's
archived? E.g., when it's in use, maybe some different files could be
present. When hierarchy is closed, something is responsible for
collapsing metadata.

...

Josh: Ideas around importing zarr data into other systems with a richer
interface.

Matthias: E.g., if you turn on consolidated metadata, zarr refuses to
touch individual files. Some tensions, recognising they exist is useful,
silo discussion. Give use cases names.

Alistair: spectrum of patterns -- write-once-(parallel)-read-many
(closed); continuous-update (accumulation); and those in between:

-   Linking between arrays, needs multiple metadata writes into a single
    node, possibly in parallel
-   Searching / querying metadata (keeping index in sync)

Matthias: Metadata/linking problem involves append. Don't know in
advance how many items.

Josh: User is looking for primitives, deal with all metadata as a tree.
Dennis brought up a different use case, consolidate to a group level,
could also see having sub-node (array/group) trees, breaking them on the
top-level keys.

Matthias: Going back to v2 versus v3. v3 has a single root.

Alistair: v3 doesn’t say *anything* about synchronization. Left
completely to the libraries/applications.

Matthias: zarr archive \>\> … \>\> zarr dynamic \>\> … . “Everything
that is consistency-based must go through a separate API” would be a
good thing to document.

zpath? e.g. "/foo/bar/baz@spam/eggs" refers to the attribute "spam/eggs"
on the hierarchy node "/foo/bar/baz"

i.e., in python API, could do either:

root\['/foo/bar/baz@spam/eggs'\]

...or:

root\['/foo/bar/baz'\].attrs\['spam'\]\['eggs'\]

/foo/bar/baz/.zattrs/spam/eggs

/foo/bar/baz/spam/eggs

[*https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/update-field/*](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/operator/update-field/)

<span id="anchor-43"></span>

<span id="anchor-44"></span>

