---
layout: default
title: 12th August
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-08-12
parent: 2020 meetings
nav_order: 16
---

# 12th August, 2020

Attending: Dennis, Ola Tarkowska, Josh Moore, Martin Durant, John
Kirkham, Matthias, Andrew, Ryan Williams

Apologies:

-   Standing items

    -   **Introductions**: new joinees should feel welcome to introduce
        > themselves and their interest in zarr/n5.

    -   **Ola**: looking into zarr (IO performance, features, compare to
        > HDF5) after being introduced to Alistair. Context of imaging
        > data.

-   Add community stuff here (30 minutes)

    -   **Josh**: likely to have tileDB versions of the zarr images for
        > (the start of) a benchmarking comparision

        -   **Martin**: running locally? Josh: would think both. Martin:
            would like to look into mult-get/get_items and fsspec.
            (async s3fs isn’t released yet; is breaking pandas
            currently) Got blocked by the various implementations Nested
            (which only shows up in the tests)
        -   Josh: could also see an intermediate solution (pre-v3) for
            the storage issue.

    -   **Matthias**: also fighting with Windows. For async everywhere
        > need to rethink the zarr API. Martin: work at the moment is
        > focused on the fetching of multiple keys (lots of overhead on
        > s3). E.g. xarray with a few hundred bytes per chunk. Looked at
        > Matthias’ implementation (async def), but am closer to
        > dask-distributed (i.e. asyncio). Can be added to v2 though not
        > very deep (e.g. file listings)

    -   **John: **saturated with rapids

    -   **Dennis: **just gave talk to NASA about netcdf cloud work with
        > Ward

    -   

-   Add core stuff here (30 minutes)

    -   **Matthias**: Quantstack got contract on Monday. Will be joining
        > Friday meetings. Wednesdays are too late. Have them
        > participate on the C implementation or green field? At least
        > list in one place. People are confused that Zarr isn’t just
        > Python. Something early in the docs. As well as some form of
        > test suite to compare some set of files.

    -   John: cf.

        -   **John**:
            [*https://github.com/constantinpape/zarr_implementations*](https://github.com/constantinpape/zarr_implementations)

    -   **Matthias**: tests passing (though not on Windows due to
        > slashes). Talked to Sylvain. May need to rethink types not
        > multiple of 8. Worth the complexity?

    -   **Matthias**: could use testers / mergers for various smallish
        > pull requests. Josh: any priority? Not really.

        -   Andrew: ditto on
            [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/584*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/584)
        -   Discussion about evaluating byte access patterns esp. With
            partial decompressions
        -   John:
            [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/blob/692f8e6b27c878c7dbad80f55366db7eea4f7d58/zarr/indexing.py*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/blob/692f8e6b27c878c7dbad80f55366db7eea4f7d58/zarr/indexing.py)
        -   John: tried memory mapping? Helpful? A: haven’t tried it.
            (still learning about blosc)
        -   Martin: came across case (in pangeo?) where blosc in a
            separate thread was slower than in the main thread. I.e.
            guessing performance will always be difficult.

<span id="anchor-46"></span>

