---
layout: default
title: 29th June
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2022-06-29
parent: 2022 meetings
nav_order: 13
---

# 29th June, 2022

Attending: Davis Bennett (DV), Sanket Verma (SV), Josh Moore (JM), Jeremy Matiin-Shepard (JMS), Parth Tripathi (PT), Ward Fisher (WF), Hailey Johnson (HJ), Shivank Chaudhary (SC), Ryan Abernathey (RA) +30 min

Updates (SV):

- [Zarr-Python 2.12.0](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/1038) has been released! 🎉

Agenda:
- ZEP1: https://github.com/zarr-developers/zeps/pull/1
  - Authored by Alistair and Jonathan
  - includes details on sharding & transformers
  - addresses pain points & lack of clarity in v2
  - Alistair to open spec changes against zarr-specs repo
  - see https://zarr.dev/zeps for these changes
  - comment on PR as desired
  - otherwise, merging very soon
  - further discussion to take place on the zarr-specs PR
- Briefly (Josh), NFDI recommended for funding :tada:
  - https://twitter.com/notjustmoore/status/1541776908043567104 
- JMS spec discussions
  - NB: right forum? JM: just need to communicate thoughts back on the PR since there is no requirement to be at the community calls
  - Dimension labels
    - there seemed to be interest in writing it up as a spec
    - requirement that they are unique strings OR the empty string to say that they are unlabeled
    - DB: motivation for unlabeled? Currently all are unlabeled. DB: disagree they are all labeled with integers.
    - JMS: then strings are optional/additional alternatives.
    - DB: see it leading to issues. potentially: "if you add labels then you must add all"
    - JMS: case of automating inputs to outputs could lead to inventing fake labels but perhaps that's preferable to empty
    - DB: drawback from type theory is that you want the unlabel to be a different type. JMS: Use Null? disallow `""` anyway?
    - WF: dimensions are label and id parent? or conflating NC/H5
    - JMS: was just thinking within a given array. goal would be to not need to know it's "dimension[2]"
    - DB: could see having arrays logically identical with different dimension ordering. want to enable use of, e.g., `"z"`
    - WF: "dim_$N" gets assigned automatically.
    - JM: need for buy-in from xarray and nczarr
    - JM: in .zattrs? .zarray? JMS: don't really mind.
    - DB: err on the side of having zarrs more like numpy arrays
    - JM: names in numpy are part of the dtype
    - DB: backwards-compatible way to specify the defaults if they don't exist
    - JMS: and added to the zarr-python library? Yes.
  - Single string to identify zarr root path + zarr array/dataset within root
    - SV: Greg left a [comment](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1039#issuecomment-1170034733) today. See also shoyer [issue](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1039)
    - DB: an issue. problematic ergonomics
    - JMS: was hoping to find a resolution
    - JM: couple proposed
      - sensible defaults
    - DB: reason for separate hierarchy
      - JM: possible extensions (like consolidated)
      - JMS: range-requests to see full listings
    - RA: strongly believe that V3 doesn't introduce such a breaking change
    - RA: NC uses path/to/file.h5/path/to/group
      - JM: would require an increased number of lookups for the root JSON
      - WF: correction -- NC uses two strings
    - JMS: neuroglancer has a data source URL. can make up a convention but it would be nice to preserve the single-string semantics
    - RA: xarray only opens groups. more complicated for arrays.
    - RA: good to formalize the URI/URL semantics (good to specify your data with a string)
    - JMS: applies to groups, too.
    - RA: xarray supports extra path to a sub-group. also gaining datatree functionality.
      - DB: going into mainline? RA: Yes. DB: super cool.
    - DB: couldn't you just pass the absolute.
      - JM: you don't pass "data" or "meta". only the logical group.
      - DB: that means that could completion won't work. could irritate people.
      - DB: would pass the array. job of library is to find the array.
    - RA: use hash tag or standardized file ending (.zarr) to parse URL
      - DB: .zarr seems 100% reasonable (since slash is taken)
      - DB: recommendation for people who want to live their truth
      - JMS: would like to make this a MUST
    - DB: jpeg vs jpg vs ...
      - RA: mimetype
    - JM: make the .json files the default?
      - RA: getting Zarr into STAC was problematic because it's to a URL rather than a file. i.e. it fundamentally becomes a JSON file. Becomes a catalog.
      - DB: like it. Directories are not real, files are real.
      - JMS: could define a different ending?
      - RA: .json is good
      - JM: it's .zarr.json which isn't bad
      - DB: natural when moving from local file system to a KVS
      - RA: opens up absolute paths to chunks potentially
      - JMS: with more changes to the spec, yeah.
      - JM: consolidated metadata will be problematic.
- DB: PR
  - mypy issues
  - annotations breaks linter
  - JM: generally :+1: for type annotations, also ok to start looking at dropping 3.7 now
- Tabled
  - Support for inf/nan/binary data in attributes
  - Endianness
  - Zarr's website
    - What do you feel about our current website?
    - What would you like to see in the new website?
    - Any ideas for good Jekyll/any static website generator themes?
