---
layout: default
title: 23rd March
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2022-03-23
parent: 2022 meetings
nav_order: 6
---

# 23rd March, 2022

**Attending:** Sanket V., Josh M., Hailey J., Greg L., Dennis H., Jim Pivarski, John K, Jeremy Maitin-Shepard

Agenda:
- Tornadoes!
- GSoC and GSoD Updates
  - Several people are showing up looking for good first issues.
  - Feel free to help them out, but SV & JM'll be chatting wit them this weekend.
  - Anyone who is interested in spearheading GSOD (deadline tomorrow)
- [ZEP](https://github.com/zarr-developers/governance/pull/16) feedback: Governance, template, 
  - JMS: propose/offer using an existing issue to test the ZEP. (:+1:)
  - e.g. Data type rename issue: https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/131
  - Description of some dtypes currently supported in Zarr-Python's v2 implementation, but are not part of the core v3 spec: https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/135
  - Now or later? SV: will ping after another round of changes

- V3 / awkward arrays: extension mechanism
  - https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/62
  - https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/89
  - JP: requires 5 1D arrays, an integer with the size, the array names, and some JSON as to the types
    - edits are not supported. memory is shared in python implementation
    - one option might be to have arrow as a subspec of zarr
  - DH: potentially having a different return type.
    - JM: that might could be used for xarray as well
  - JP: looking to warn people about the need for awkward arrays (or even making the storage opaque)
  - JM: e.g. having the extension mechanism allow/enable:
    - mandatory (MUST): throws exception if not installed
    - suggested (SHOULD): which raises a warning
    - optional (MAY): which silently ignores
  - JMS: would see `open_with` as a better pattern. e.g. choosing a backend without disallowing access to the details
  - DH: this seems to follow the pattern of being "part of something bigger" while still made of parsable units (e.g. dimension arrays, multiscale, etc.)
  - JMS: would be interesting to make use of chunking in the layout. JP: agreed, e.g. to enable parallel writes
- xarray/nczarr (Josh) - anyone interested from the xarray side? (tabled)
