---
layout: default
title: 21st September
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2022-09-21
parent: 2022 meetings
nav_order: 19
---

# 2022-09-21

**Attending:** Josh Moore (JM), Jeremy Maitin-Shephard (JMS), Ahmet Can Solak (AS), Sanket & the Do-a-thon, Martin Durant (MD), Davis Bennett (DB)

## TL;DR:

Having a new attendee from the CZI Open Science Summit, we took a deep dive into the best way to capture data directly from microscopes, comparing the pros and cons of Zarr/HDF5/Zip and more. Additionally, we worked through remotely visualizing a Zarr when it's been created on the cluster in a Jupyter notebook.

**Updates:**
- Sanket at CZI/NumFOCUS Summits
- Coming to San Fran next week, lunch!

**Open Agenda (add here 👇🏻):**
- Ahmet: BioHub
  - Collaborators interested in Java implementation
    - Need a good implementation
    - ImageJ / BDV (folks at Janelia)
    - V3: collaborators to help read it
    - JMS: explicit opt-in for V3 (need to know _a priori_)
      - Though auto-detection could be added
      - neuroglancer likely has a stronger case for auto-detection
    - AS: happy tensorstore users. Thanks alot! :star: 
  - [https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1140](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1140)
    - resize manually? more internal with a skinnier API
    - JMS: assume things within old bounds are old?
    - AS: perhaps request chunks (from last savepoint) more compute heavy
      - keyword argument?
    - MD: "don't bother writing where there's no new data"
    - JM: see related [https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1017](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1017)
    - JMS/MD: use selection to fill in the new bits
    - AS: `append()` is only for one axis. This might be for arbitrary axes.
      - perhaps `append_chunks()`
  - use case
    - instruments generating lots of data quickly.
    - don't want to resize if not necessary. with fewer methods if possible.
    - most efficient way?
    - of course, better to know exact size.
    - MD: just have size must larger and have missing chunks?
    - AS: only if know when biologists will stop
    - Clarification: doesn't write the empty chunks
    - MD: do edge chunks need special handling?
      - JMS: no. always write the full chunk.
      - (not in N5, and didn't implement in tensorstore)
    - DB: wouldn't suggest having everything in one array
      - 1 array per timepoint (doesn't work for NGFF)
      - growable arrays
      - or use HDF5 for the acquisition
      - AS: why? faster than zarr-python. but tensorstore? Don't know.
      - JM: let's do that benchmark
      - DB: Windows doesn't like lots of small files
      - MD: could write Zarr into Zip with no compression (basically what HDF5 does)
      - DB: save data in the way that's most effective for the acquisition
        - Zarr as a great format after that
      - AS: that's what we were doing previously. but additional time adds up. people want the results faster. was asked to add ZarrWriter in aquisition package. Can then easily transfer to data storage.
        - DB: easier to transfer than HDF5? No, than the raw files. Compression is a benefit.
        - AS: set chunk size bigger rather than using HDF5
        - JM: per camera. but can't compress chunks.
        - HDF5 compress in parallel but not write in parallel
        - JMS: eventually all use cases of HDF5 but not there yet
          - granularity at which you can read and write
        - AS: re-chunking is faster than converting camera offline
        - AS: with two camera we don't try to write to same array with both, but multiple places
    - JM: zip support in tensorstore? JMS: not yet
      - JMS: also thought about LMDB. single file. pretty efficient.
        - zip e.g. doesn't support deleting.
        - also only has one directory structure
      - MD: HDF also has that problem.
      - DB: re-writing isn't a problem for acquisition.
      - JMS: do need to checkpoint the zip directory periodically.
      - AS: saving single-array per timepoint, then zip might work quite well.
        - converting to zip zarr saw some worse performance. not sure where.
        - MD: make sure the zip isn't compressed.
      - JM: need Zip spec
      - DB: would love to hear where this goes
      - MD: **inverse problem**
        - massive HDF5 files in tar file on S3 for the purpose of multi-file dataset
        - desire to distribute them as individual files
        - 20G tar containing HDF5
        - Kerchunk's job was to point to these files within the tar
        - or "find all the chunks in all of the files"
        - works nicely!
        - fetches are short but there are many of them.
        - had to download it (for scanning) but don't want users to have to do that.
        - i.e. if you push for a single file, perhaps you can get the best of both worlds.
        - DB: lambda function? probably. (but this was custom S3)
        - JM: need Java implementation of Kerchunk (for BDV)
        - DB: generate from json-schema
        - AS: with kerchunk can you point to your data centers...
          - MD: each chunk is a key but is a URL
          - JM: `"chunk-name"URL, offset, length)`
          - JMS: can get the correct endpoint for a chunk
            - add s3 syntax
        - IPFS, mutable hashes, ...
- DB: interesting workflow. any help?
  - couldn't get napari on cluster over VDI
  - transforming images and saving them as zarr.
  - starting static server and pointing neuroglancer at it.
  - would prefer to do things programmatically in neuroglancer and it spits out a URL
  - also convenient to have static file server as background process from main python (notebook)
  - JMS: definitely convenient and it's "just a web server"
  - DB: don't save that to disk? dask arrays in memory?
  - JMS: neuroglancer-py does have a way to share numpy array or tensorstore object
    - Socker based? Internally starting a web server.
    - DB: and if it gets updated? does it block? No, background thread
    - There is a method to invalidate the cache.
    - Python API for making URLs? Yes.
    - Could be attractive to people (Janelia) for when computing on the cluster
  - JM: See also Wei's imjoy-rpc for the usability
  - JMS: works as iframe in jupyter now (DB: desirable)
  - JMS: possibly using jupyter protocols would work around firewall
