---
layout: default
title: 30th June
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-06-30
parent: 2021 meetings
nav_order: 12
---

# 30th June, 2021

Attendees: Ward, Josh, Hailey, Greggory, John, Ryan W., Dennis

-   Bug war stories…

-   Hailey: Need to have ‘/’ (ran into the same issue)

    -   Josh: according to the spec, it’s an array concern.  
        > (Would require another spec change to do something different)

    -   Greg: in v3 top-level metadata? No, array specific so that’s
        > good.

    -   Dennis is using the \`D\` separator

    -   [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/769*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/769)

-   Greg: BaseStore & need some consistency (sync.ing between v2 and v3)

    -   [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/789*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/789)

    -   John: CC’d a few people who may be interested

    -   dict/MutableMapping is assumed v2? (users needs to wrap for v3?)

-   Dennis: working on netcdf filter side.

-   Ward: will bring up AGU deadlines when they arise

    -   [*https://www.agu.org/Fall-Meeting/Pages/Present/Abstracts*](https://www.agu.org/Fall-Meeting/Pages/Present/Abstracts)

    -   working on zlib replacement

    -   Hailey: abstracts due Aug. 4th (300 word)

    -   Josh: 2-week holidays starting 19th of July so not chance, to
        > help on abstract, but happy to participate in content creation

    -   Ward: can get abstract together

-   John: next meeting is in the middle of SciPy. Cancel?

-   Josh: European HDF Users Group meeting

    -   high-level

    -   No expertise in house

    -   netcdf cordially

    -   nczarr?

    -   CEO

    -   ros3? Pretty much just works.

        -   Dependent on Virtual file layer. Any byte range reading.
        -   John: know someone from QuantStack

