---
layout: default
title: 15th December
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-12-15
parent: 2021 meetings
nav_order: 23
---

# 15th December, 2021

Attending: Josh Moore, Eric Perlman, Tobias Kölling, Ryan Williams, John
Kirkham

-   Hiring/money

    -   no outreachy

    -   dozen or so applications for comm. mgr

    -   scalable minds working on sharding

    -   b-open for xarray, multiscales, and more extension-like stuff

-   State of the world, Eric? “why doesn’t Zarr…”

    -   (overall goal of replacing TIFF stacks with chunked zarr)

    -   [*axes*](https://github.com/ome/ngff/pull/57) (OME-Zarr)

    -   sharded

        -   EP: read-only? still open

        -   EP: simple read-only would be a great start. (\~20 files)

            -   some overlap with HDF5. (Josh: some benchmarking)

        -   JM: kerchunk in front 20 HDF5s

        -   EP: JSON too large

        -   TK: hierarchy of indices so you don’t have to load all

        -   TK: and recursive shards/zarr?

        -   JM: Jeremy said it would be difficult for the client to make
            use of more than 2

        -   EP: dask lazy-arrays of dask lazy-arrays of ….

        -   JM: worried that something is in the python implementation
            as opposed to the “protocol” (shape + chunks +
            dimension_separator := all keys for chunks)

        -   EP: “logical encoding” versus actual “path”

        -   JK: indexing a point in an octree (paths on each dimension)

            -   separate issues. (optimal) access patterns for
                > particular use

            -   two different things going on:

                -   how deeply to split
                -   how it gets implemented

            -   almost like a compression

        -   EP: logical key v. physical key

        -   `Image 5` `Image 6`

        -   …. lots of talking (unfortunately not recorded)

        -   JM: love the hierarchical “smart-mutable mapping” but Zarr
            protocol *avoids* knowing how to split byte streams into
            mutable mappings

            -   This gets us to the issue of (offset, length)

        -   JK: spent lots of time with dask serialization protocol

            -   “have a header on the byte string” “how many do I have?”

            -   shift all the metadata somewhere else? **.zidx** (for
                > the whole array?)

            -   mostly thinking of archival data (frequent read)

        -   JM: Allowing Array.\_chunk_key to return (key, offset,
            length)

-   Tabled: netcdf-java (AGU permitting) - Josh

    -   [*Maven
        > Central*](https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:edu.ucar) v.
        > [*Nexus*](https://artifacts.unidata.ucar.edu/#browse/search=keyword%3Dzarr:b03509dc0442d84005d3b2e5eea93213),
        > [*Filters*](https://www.unidata.ucar.edu/blogs/developer/en/entry/hacktoberfest-2021-contribute-filters-to),

