---
layout: default
title: 20th October
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-10-20
parent: 2021 meetings
nav_order: 19
---

# 20th October, 2021

Attending: Josh Moore, Davis Bennett, Dennis Heimbigner, Ward Fisher,
Martin Durant, Ryan Williams, Gregory Lee

-   Davis:

    -   interested in
        > [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/843*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/843)

    -   also have a branch for fixing how writing of chunks reads

        -   has a race condition in test_sync. Use Juan’s timeout.
        -   PR to be opened.

-   Josh:

    -   Investigating xarray interaction improvements with b-open

    -   Also investigating sharding prototype API with scalable minds.

        -   May want to make use of a translation layer like kerchunk

-   Martin

    -   zarr is still the primary use for
        > [*kerchunk*](https://github.com/fsspec/kerchunk/pull/91)

        -   Talking to people, astro data will work only if very regular
        -   List of chunk sizes in dask array
        -   Could imagine implementing the dask scheme in zarr (breaks
            assumptions)
        -   Cause: Detectors of complicated sizes; mosaics with
            overlaps. Also in the time domain. (e.g. in geo & climate
            where 365 v 366 days causes a problem)
        -   Dennis: switching to ***variable chunk size ***would allow
            Zarr to support lazy rechunking -- take a given chunk and
            over time divide it into smaller chunks (i.e. attractive).
            Martin: may need to move chunk names after re-indexing. cf.
            tiledb’s macrochunks & microchunks.

    -   numcodecs

        -   interested to use entrypoints for declaring codecs
        -   kerchunk desires this for GRIB files (c-compiled thing, so
            writes to temporary local file; using codecs for this)
        -   imagecodecs from cgohlke
        -   Josh: still need a unique identifier
        -   Martin: in dask you would need to use an environment file
            for the right libraries.

    -   Sparse?

        -   Josh: see Eric below. Expect to see a PR eventually.
        -   Davis: how is that not a codec?
        -   Martin: more a convention concern. Working with the awkward
            arrays.

    -   PyData Global!

        -   Talk called “All you need is Zarr”
        -   many in the HDF5 community are interested in Zarr+Kerchunk
            to get cloud friendly storage. Basically a translation
            layer. Likely to need more codecs.
        -   Josh: strong relationship to the sharding work.
        -   Martin: metadata tricks can get you a lot without too many
            downsides. (Even though you’ll need to scan your data)
        -   May be pushing on this

-   Ward

    -   Unidata moving forward with solicitation (v3 + parallelization)

    -   Letter of collaboration? Josh: sure. Template → Logo → Good.

-   Martin: pangeo meeting pointed to a concern of there being no R
    implementation

    -   see
        > [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/community/issues/18*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/community/issues/18)

    -   Dennis talking to someone at the R group. Thinking about using
        > nczarr. (also for MATLAB)

    -   Contact has been made.

    -   Internal issue for tracking. Will try to move it more publicly.

-   Greg: preliminaries for V3 implementation

    -   [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/789*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/789)
        > (BaseStore)

    -   [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/839*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/839)
        > (Metadata handling)

    -   Josh: Integrating them into an 2.11 alpha release

    -   Greg update

-   Davis: re: dimension_separator travail

    -   Move keys from strings to tuple of strings

    -   Playing around with that. But breaks the ability to use
        > dictionaries for storage

    -   i.e. perhaps using dict for storage is important

    -   Advantage of splitting prefix & chunk key is nice.

    -   How sacred is dictionary as a store?

    -   Josh: or a Key object?

    -   Dennis: nczarr uses tuples internally with on-the-fly conversion
        > of tuple ot string.

        -   Gotcha was converting from string to tuple (need heuristics)
        -   Davis: when is that needed? in S3 you ask for all strings
            below a certain point. accessing this individually requires
            parsing them to tuples.
        -   Josh: the “Hierarchy”-style with a cached test of .zarray
            existence would also work.
        -   Dennis: that’s preferable.

