---
layout: default
title: 5th May
description: Community Call Meeting Notes for 2020-05-05
parent: 2021 meetings
nav_order: 9
---

# 5th May, 2021

<span id="anchor-21"></span>~~zarrR
(~~[*~~community#18~~*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/community/issues/18)~~)~~
TABLED

Attendees: Josh, John K., Ryan W., Dominik Lindner, Jean-marie Burel,
Stephan Saalfeld, Tobi, Jean-Karim Heriche, Hailey Johnson, Dennis,
Martin Durant, Greg Lee, Jackson Brown

-   Introductions

    -   OME team: interest in workflows & analysis

    -   J-K (EMBL): big R user, doing imaging

    -   Tobi: looking for how to run Zarr on ipfs

-   R implementations

    -   ...*links here*...

-   Anything else?

    -   nczarr & compressor support ([*4
        > slides*](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vr0eCQNvd0BeBuuVN8oOWnULqdBJ4C_f6581YHIMHz8/edit?usp=sharing))

        -   Note: HDF5 doesn’t provide parameters

        -   SS: distinction between filter & compressor?

        -   DH: is SHUFFLE a compressor? (HDF5 doesn’t distinguish)

            -   Storing last filter as the compressor (for now)

        -   MD: list of the differences? DH: zfp e.g. isn’t defined. But
            not a large set.

            -   John: https://pypi.org/project/hdf5plugin/

            -   MD: interest also for fsspec to have the codecs matched
                > up.

            -   J-K: what’s the use case? DH: interoperability.

            -   https://pypi.org/project/imagecodecs/ of interest (see
                > [*converter*](https://github.com/cgohlke/imagecodecs/blob/master/imagecodecs/numcodecs.py))

            -   TM: uses prefix of “imagecodecs:” in the codec id.

            -   MD: couple of duplicates

        -   **General question of whether filter & compressor could be
            combined in V3 ?**

            -   MD: loose definition is filter(array) -\> array and
                > compressor(bytestream) -\> array

            -   John: history - sometimes people want to store text data
                > (unicode) or arbitrary python objects

            -   SS: so filter is exclusively for Python? For some,
                > definitely.

        -   Tobi: many people creating datasets with incompatibility
            issues

            -   There should be an easy way to see how compatible a
                > dataset is.

            -   Warning? etc.Something implementations should inspire
                > to.

    -   Martin Durant: Who wants to give a quick (10min) overview of
        > zarr at Dask Summit/IO workshop?
        > [*https://summit.dask.org/*](https://summit.dask.org/)

        -   Organizing workshop “Data IO” 2 hours of talking
        -   TileDB will be there as well.
        -   Open informal. Ok to repeat.
        -   Trevor: adapting files for Zarr (filesystem reference)
        -   Josh/Jackson: at Life sciences
        -   Stephan: Davies?

-   Finishing up:

    -   Anyone want adding to the calendar invite? email:

