<span id="anchor-52"></span>2020-05-27

Dennis, Matthias, Ryan W, John K, Josh (very late)

Non standard community call, high bandwidth discussion about spec v3.

-   Some misc suggestions: See
    [*https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/71/files*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/71/files)
-   Overview:

-   **Standing items: **

<!-- -->

-   -   Base raw types

        -    r+ number of bits/bytes.
        -   Non multiple of 8 ?
        -   There might be interest in allowing fewer than 8 bits for
            categorical.
        -   Non multiple of 2 ?
        -   Dennis: Type def like style ?
        -   Dennis core: variable length type.
        -   

    -   Extensions:

        -   How to declare dependencies

        -   Should all extensions be listed in the top metadata document
            and referred to in .group .array with only their URL

            -   Pros: avoid to check all intermediate path for a
                > .group/.array and read it to see if it can be
                > understood.

            -   Cons: complicated on deletion, disallow different
                > extensions in same hierarchy.

        -   Is must_understand too restrictive for extensions that only
            apply to a group .subgroup ?

        -   Fill_values for extension fallback 0b -0x ?

        -   [*List of some possible extension
            examples*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/issues/49#issuecomment-591821015)
            (in the context of a proposal around a specific
            extension-framework implementation, from discussions w
            Josh+John at CZI summit in February)

Seem to be fine, but josh ask about link to remote linked datasets ?

It might be fine to assume that remote is it’s own dataset.

-   -   Stores: Strictness of API.

        -   Can store assume queries are valid ?
        -   Group keys always ending in / ?
        -   Suggestion of \`delete_prefix\`
        -   Strictness of what is accepted by stores (bytes, bytesarray,
            numpy arrays…) and returned.

-   

Extensions :

-   Types,

-   Attributes.

-   Extra objects.

-   Checksum example. Checksum are kind of a filter.

