<span id="anchor-22"></span>2021-04-21

Attendees: Ward, Josh, Matthias, Dennis, Jackson, RyanW., Greg

-   EOSS 4: received invitation (May 19)

    -   Ward: chair Unidata DEI. Developer staff is above industry
        > standard.

    -   Matthias: NumFOCUS overhead goes to inclusive ecosystem

    -   Quansight numbers? Unclear. Split overhead.

-   Genomic data in Zarr → Alistair

    -   Josh: see
        > [*isssues#4*](https://github.com/zarr-developers/community/issues/4#issuecomment-517242106)

-   Ward: nczarr 4.8 released (!)

    -   Represents a different data model? Wasn’t the intent

    -   But has been released. Kudos to Dennis.

    -   4.8.1 to be released ASAP with xarray support.

    -   Josh: similar to xarray.

    -   Dennis: added notes to the documentation about compatibility

        -   great lengths that existing zarr implementation should read
            any nczarr file. Works to some degree. Can also read any
            existing zarr file.

        -   Pure superset for supporting netcdf 4 features

        -   Limitation: zarr can read nczarr if willing to:

            -   ignore keys that are unknown

            -   ignore objects that are unknown

        -   Treading on thin ice. Hopefully people will ignore

    -   Josh: good to clarify these holes in the spec on the repo

    -   Dennis: looking at the extensions if there’s a way to adapt, but
        > good to have those conversations.

    -   The HDF Group (THG) is hosting a presentation on May 14 to lay
        > out their own cloud efforts. Registration is free, information
        > here:
        > [*https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYud-qgrjwjG91UF7SM7PiRU_QQQZ3jE6nG*](https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJYud-qgrjwjG91UF7SM7PiRU_QQQZ3jE6nG)

-   (v2) Nested arrays

    -   Dennis: trying to implement. One minor bug but working ok.

    -   Those who chimed in were happy with it.

-   (v3) Matthias

    -   Getting dimension_separator in

    -   Rebasing base store work on that

    -   Moving forward!

-   Ryan: next step on contract round 1

    -   Report due at the end of the month

    -   Ask for another extension? Yeah, let’s go for it.

-   European add on: Tobias Koelling, Stephan Saalfeld

    -   Timezones

    -   Saalfeld: caching JSON is a huge win. Also think about file
        > listing.  
        > Anything that incurs latency.

        -   Containers are very full, multiscale.
        -   Tree discovery is very slow.
        -   Async helps, but caching metadata is really useful.
        -   Josh: tricky semantics that you
        -   S. for a read instance on one computer, changes will be
            consistent
        -   Josh: timeout? by size?
        -   S: not yet. Really small. Also assume that these readers are
            short-lived.

    -   Tobias: consolidating data in atmospheric sciences (EUREC4A
        > ATOMIC)

        -   want to store data distributed (e.g. IPFS)
        -   could imagine zarr on IPFS
        -   [*https://pypi.org/project/ipfsspec/*](https://pypi.org/project/ipfsspec/)
        -   [*https://github.com/d70-t/ipfszarr*](https://github.com/d70-t/ipfszarr)
        -   [*an ipfs zarr
            dataset*](https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/QmdzShXdxQAjzTGWarDCae7EyVxwtgaFXBcFzpakYywqRu)!

